you have to use fear to push you to new
heights but when you reach the heights
when you face those fairies in their
life you have to be able to turn off
that fear of felling so you know where
I'm going to keep working there may be
failure later on down the road but I
already felt what it felt like so it
can't be that much worse so I have to
keep pushing myself everybody welcome to
impact theory you're here my friends
because you believe that human potential
is nearly limitless but you know that
having potential is not the same as
actually doing something with it so our
goal with this show and company is to
introduce you to the people and ideas
that will help you actually execute on
your dreams all right today's guest is
one of the most accomplished and
resilient human beings I have ever come
across
despite snapping his leg literally in
half his freshman year in high school he
fought back becoming one of the best
high school football players in the
country ultimately being offered a
scholarship to play by more than 50 of
the most prestigious college programs
then despite blowing out his knee his
freshman year in college breaking his
leg again in his sophomore year blowing
out his back tearing his rotator cuff
and even breaking his toe many of them
potentially career-ending injuries he
was still able to fight his way back to
playing at an elite level being named an
all-american and the 2011 Big Ten
Defensive Player of the Year and shortly
thereafter he was also drafted 53rd
overall in the 2012 NFL Draft
finally this poor guys dreams had come
true but then in his second year in the
NFL he dislocated his elbow fought his
way back from that but then blew his
back out again just two games later
after season-ending back surgery he was
almost killed from post-operative blood
clots in his lungs but as gnarly as all
of that was it was nothing compared to
the fight he would find himself in just
a couple of months later when his four
year old daughter was diagnosed with
stage 4 neuroblastoma a rare form of
pediatric cancer but even that was not
going to break this man or his daughter
he put his NFL career on hold and said
about teaching her everything he knew
about how to fight and it worked
despite being given only a 50% chance of
living she's now been cancer-free for
years now retired this true
the anti fragile man has dedicated
himself to helping others as a speaker
high performance coach in the backbone
of the still strong foundation the
foundation has already raised millions
of dollars to aid other families in the
fight against pediatric cancer so please
help me in welcoming the man who even
the FBI has turned to for leadership
training former NFL star and future
author of still in the game
Devon Still show pleasure to be here I
was absolutely freaked out by your story
it is almost hysterical how many times
you've been injured and told oh you're
probably not gonna play again and then
you just come back come back come back
how did you develop that mindset like
what was it that you went through that
toughen you up I think it would just
have to be my upbringing um having that
injury early on in my high school career
really helped out a lot because they
tested my will you know I set out when I
was young to want to be NFL player or be
a professional athlete and sometimes
when you you say you want to be
something like to test just how much you
want to be and for me that happened when
I was 14 and I broke my leg on
basketball practice
yeah there's breaking your leg and then
you said that your leg was hanging on by
a tendon right just got to be pretty
scary for anybody let alone at that age
so how did you and this is something I
always find really fascinating about
people that succeed at a high level and
variably at some point their life
somebody in like authority the person
you're supposed to listen to is gonna
say yeah this you may not be able to
come back from this what was it that
gave you the belief in yourself to say
I'm gonna ignore that and I'm gonna push
you this all right cuz I saw other
people do it before you know I'm not the
first person who suffered a big injury
during sports and they were able to
overcome that and still become that
professional athlete and I felt as
though I wasn't any different and the
worst thing I can do was actually try
and if it didn't happen that I will be
okay with it but I couldn't settle with
knowing that I never tried to see if I
can overcome
did you see other people either before
college in college or in the NFL that
were broken by what they went through
like whatever injury that they sustained
just not be able to overcome it that
happens a lot you know I wasn't the most
talented person growing up in football I
actually was pretty terrible when I
first started but what stops people from
making it to the highest level is that
they don't overcome those injuries they
let the people come into their life and
tell them you know what I don't think
you're able to overcome this injury and
they don't even try whereas it's people
who have the resolve to keep fighting
and keep working towards a goal or the
people who usually get their goals you
there was actually an amazing quote that
you said and it was I'm gonna paraphrase
it but it was like if you fail don't
worry that doesn't make you a failure it
just means that what you were going
after you didn't want badly enough smart
another that was pretty interesting how
do how do you find things you want that
badly like how do you not fall prey to
that where it's just like well I I'm
gonna give up I think people have to
realize that they have to accept failure
but don't accept defeat I think whenever
you're trying to do something great
whenever you're trying to be successful
you're going to face failures you know
but it's those lessons in the photos
that really take you to greatness if you
look at sports you know when we go
through practice we fell all the time in
practice but they're controlled failures
so that when it's really game time when
we step out on the field when it really
matters we're able to execute because we
felt so much in practice that we knew
what we had to do in a game in order to
succeed and how do you think about
failure what do you conceptualize it in
a certain way that it's like a learning
lesson or how do you keep it from
damaging your ego it hurts don't get it
no no doubt about it
failure definitely hurts um but the way
that you're able to overcome those
failures just say you know what I felt
because of this reason I'm gonna take
these lessons I'm not gonna focus on me
failing but I'm gonna take the lessons
in the first so that when I move on and
I try to do something new that I already
have the equipment or the lessons in
order to succeed the next time around so
one thing that I always I like to ask
guests regardless of what I know about
their kids obviously I know a lot about
Leah and the story of her going through
the cancer and one of the things that I
found so interesting was that you
couldn't fight the battle for her she
had to fight it herself
but you had made the decision that you
were going to teach her how to fight so
one how did you think about the what you
call the playbook like how did you come
up with a playbook and what were the
lessons and what's it like teaching
those to a kid so I came up with the
playbook because going into my third
year the NFL I sat down with the
reporter and he had asked me a lot of
questions but the one question that
stuck out to me was he had asked me
you've been the top dog your whole
career playing sports what is it like to
have to fight for your spot now in the
NFL and it kind of rubbed me the wrong
way because I felt like he didn't
understand what I went through in order
to get to this point so I started to go
down a list of all the things that I
went through in my life
and when I told him he had his look of
shock on his face like man I can't
believe you were able to accomplish all
this after going through all that how
were you able to do it and that was the
first time anybody had ever asked me
that question and I didn't have a good
answer at that time I just told him I
don't know I just did fast-forward a
couple of months later
Liat got diagnosed with cancer and I was
crushed you know I thought when I heard
the word cancer I associated with death
and I thought my daughter was gonna die
but I decided to do some soul-searching
to find out what that I had in me that
allowed me to overcome all the obstacles
that I faced in order to make it to the
NFL and it was really football you know
I've been playing football since I was
13 and it had been conditioning me my
whole life without me knowing on how to
overcome adversity how to overcome
obstacles so I came up with a playbook
that I was gonna use to teach my
daughter how to overcome the battle with
cancer because the beautiful thing about
the brain is that were able to condition
it to think whatever we wanted to think
and do whatever we wanted to do and I
wanted to condition my daughter to think
like a athlete so she can approach this
battle with cancer like a game so how
does an athlete stink well first I feel
like you have to have a vision you you
have to set big goals for yourself I
tell people all the time
we here you know set attainable goals
that you can go after but I honestly
believe that you have to set big goals
in life and I compared it to the
Olympics with the high jump you know
when you watch the high jump when
they're warming up these these pee
they set the bar pretty low for
themselves right and if you see these
jumpers jumping over the bar they're
barely getting over the bar
which is it's crazy to me cuz when I
watched I'm like you know this guy's not
gonna go far you can't even clear the
low bar but as the event goes on and
they start to raise the bar higher and
higher
that same jumpers clearing the bar with
no problem and that made me realize that
you know when you set the bar low for
yourself no matter how much potential
you have you only do enough to clear the
bar but if you set the bar high for
yourself in life you're gonna do
everything you can to get over that bar
and sometimes you're gonna hit the bar
that's life but if you set the bar high
for yourself you're still jumping higher
than you would have if you set the bar
low so I wanted to set a big goal for my
daughter which was to beat cancer within
a year so what we did when we set that
big going out was if I remember right
they had told you was gonna take two
years so you literally cut that in half
they if it was successful it would took
two years we didn't even know if she was
going to be able to beat this disease
but I knew if we broke that that 2-year
down in half and we will work harder
what we did when we set that big goal is
we broke it down into smaller goals you
know so every time that she went in for
chemo for five days she would have a 21
day break in between but we would
celebrate after we got out of the
hospital know Friday's like we just won
the Superbowl because I felt like it was
important for her to realize you know
these are small steps that you're
winning but they're steps towards the
bigger goal so if you keep fighting you
keep building up these small victories
we're going to get the big victory in a
long run yeah that's it that's really
important there's a lot of studies that
back that up and one of the things that
I found most fascinating to your point
about having really big goals is that
the person who says I want to lose five
pounds right they their rate of failure
is astronomical and it's like 10 times
worse than somebody who says I'm gonna
go from morbidly obese to having
six-pack abs right and you would think
how is that possible but it's because
people get excited it's something that
gets you amped up which gives you that
energy to keep pushing going back to
your earlier quote about if you fail
don't worry doesn't make you a failure
you just weren't excited enough about
our thing that you were chasing now how
did you in all of this other than it's
been well-documented how playful you
were with Leah through the whole process
dancing
celebrating like you guys have won the
Super Bowl how did you keep her focused
and excited on what you guys were trying
to accomplish I think when you're trying
to lead a movement you have to get the
person to believe in it just as much as
you do Russ it doesn't work you know so
what I did with Lee is I made sure that
she pictured herself being a cancer
survivor before she actually was you
know the interesting thing is I went to
San Quentin prison a couple of weeks ago
where I visited with some of the inmates
and one of the inmates had asked me you
know how do you hold on to hope and
during dark times because he had been
locked up since he was 18 and he got 54
years to life and I was telling him that
if you ever wanted to leave the prison
you first had to let your mind leave it
first like you may be trapped here
physically but once you get your mind
out of it you'll start to act a certain
way you start to do the things you need
to do in order to get out of here so
what I did was Lee is I made sure that
she saw that she was a cancer survivor I
made her wear the shirts I told her
stories about people who beat the
disease and I said you know they're no
different than you if you take this same
approach if you start to act like you're
a cancer survivor now that you do the
things that you know cancer survivors
does you'll be able to fight through the
pain that you had to fight through in
order to get to your going when I was
able to get her to see how important it
was to start acting like it before she
actually was then it was easy that
that's incredible it's doubly incredible
given that she was four years old as
you're going through this process so I
know we haven't gotten through all the
things in your playbook but really fast
tell us this story and where does it fit
into the playbook of the crayons which
you're a better man than I dude that's
like honestly I don't know that I could
do that but it was so impressive that
was I was a tough moment but I think it
was a pivotal moment for Leah's battle
with cancer and it's actually mushy she
got rolled into the the room after
having a seven and a half I was surgery
to remove her tumor when they wrote her
in there I didn't even know was my
daughter like she was really swollen
she was lethargic she wasn't she
couldn't
she couldn't talk it's scary but they
had told us that it was important for
her to be able to move as days go on and
I remember it's probably a day after her
surgery or two days after her surgery
and at the end of her bed there was a
table with a coloring book and crayons
and she had just started opening her
eyes and talking and she had asked me if
I could pass her the crayons so that she
can colored you know I jumped right up
and told her yeah I'll get the crayons
for you but when I went to reach for the
curia on something stopped me she was
like you can't do this you're taking
away from her moment like this is the
beginning of her fight with cancer and
she has to realize that she's strong
enough to overcome whatever she's going
through so I sat back on the the couch
in the hospital room and I told her you
know I could get these crayons for you
but you have to get them yourself you
have to prove to yourself that you're
capable of overcoming the pain that
you're going through right now and she
gave me this crazy look like she was
just she was mad at me like you didn't
know I just went through a seven-hour
surgery but I didn't care because I knew
this was her moment so she started to
sit up in the bed and she reached out
for the decree on it she failed and she
fell back onto her pillow and you can
see just a look of disappointment in her
face you know and at that moment I kept
questioning myself is this the right
time to push her like just get the
crayons for we'll try it another day
we'll try it tomorrow but as you know
tomorrow is the worst word in a book in
the world because tomorrow can never
come in I always go to the next day so I
said no we're gonna do this right now
and I told her come on you can do this
just try it again just try harder than
you did the first time and I promise
you're gonna get it so she sits up and
she starts reaching for the crayons
again and we're probably at the 2-3
minute mark now her just trying to reach
for the crayon and she finally just
jumps for grabs it and falls back onto
her pillow and the look on her face of
just excitement and overcoming and
knowing that she was strong enough I I
think was just the mentality that she
took through the rest of her fighting on
that you know I may be in pain right
but I'm strong enough to overcome this
mm-hmm I love that so I I don't know how
many plays the PlayBook has I know four
of them which are I think really amazing
so one we've already talked about which
is setting the goals and then number two
at least as you described it in one of
the talks that I watched was purpose how
do you find your purpose how do you make
sure that it's something intense enough
that's going to see you through the
difficulties and the failures oh I think
we when you go out and you set a purpose
for something it has to be bigger than
yourself it can't always be about money
or the monetary things because I've been
able to reach those things and it didn't
bring me the happiness or the
satisfaction and I thought no I was
driving down the street a couple of
weeks ago and I was in San Francisco in
San Francisco there's a lot of mountains
right and I saw this really big mountain
from its base but I couldn't see the top
of the mountain because you know it was
covered with fog and to me it really
represented life you know a lot of the
times we we set goes for itself we climb
we want to climb these big mountains but
if we can't see what's at the top of the
mountains were reluctant to go after it
you know a lot of times we're stuck
standing at the base waiting for it that
weather to pass so that we can see how
far we have to climb and see what it
exactly is at the top of the mountain
but I think people who have a bigger
purpose they climb that mountain regards
that they can see the top because they
realize that it's not really what's at
the top of the mountain that's important
but it's the lessons along the journey
because whether you get what you wanted
at the top of the mountain or you don't
get I think you're left with the same
question which is what now if you look
at your situation you was at the top of
the mountain you built this
billion-dollar company but still when
you got to the top of the mountain you
asked yourself okay what next what's
next because I think happiness only
comes from progress so if you stay at
the top of the mountain too long you no
longer are happy so what you did is you
took the lessons that you learned from
climbing that mountain to climb a new
mountain to build this type of company
so I think it's important for people to
understand this it's really the lessons
along the journey that's the real big
prize
when you go climb the new mountain you
now have understanding of what equipment
you need to climb that mountain what
lessons you need in order to climb that
mountain because the next mountain you
climb it's easier because you already
been through the hard part which is just
initially trying but when you're doing
it for a bigger purpose than just
yourself it's harder to give up because
you know people are depending on you and
that's how it was when I was going
through with my injuries were football
you know I had a lot of instances during
my freshman year in college where I
realized that it would be selfish of me
to give up because there was times I
wanted to give up it was hard like
suffering two major injuries two season
in the surgeries back-to-back years you
have a you question yourself a lot is it
worth it it's a worth fighting through
but I realized that I had a way to
provide a better lifestyle for my family
you know I grew up in the type of city
where all there is is drugs and violence
and actually growing into my freshman
year I went home to go to a party with
some of my friends and at that party I
watched somebody get killed right in
front of my face and I told myself that
no matter what I went through in college
that I was gonna keep fighting because I
didn't want my family I didn't wanna
have to raise my kids in that same
environment that I was raised in so when
I faced adversity and I wanted to give
up I realized that if I give up I'm
letting a lot of other people down and I
couldn't do that yeah man I get that for
sure
what is your purpose now you know it
took for me to watch my daughter battle
cancer to find out what my purpose was
because I always wanted to be in the NFL
make a name for myself in the NFL but
then my daughter's fight with cancer
really brought a lot of perspective to
my life and what's important so I tell
people all the time I may not be playing
football anymore but I'm still in the
game and it's it's my game my game of
life I don't know what quarter I'm in
right now but as I tell everybody you
know as Ashley I'm conditioned to fight
for four quarters so what I want to do
with my life now is just empower people
take the lessons that I learned from my
pain and my obstacles to help people
overcome their pain because as a
competitor
I was taking so many losses you know and
when you're an athlete when you're a
competitor you'd like to win and the way
I looked at life is if I'm able to take
these lessons to help people change
their life then I'm gonna win overall
because the more obstacles I faced the
more lessons I learn the more content I
had in order to share with people so I'm
just looking to win the game of life
so I had written an intro for you that
was more focused on the like just the
accomplishments all-american you know
53rd overall like going through all of
those and then I heard you say that and
I was so I was stopped in my [__]
tracks when you said that not only did
you not resent the things that you've
gone through but that they were giving
you the tools that you needed to go and
help other people and I was like Jesus
like so many people have such a hard
time reframing their life in general the
smallest thing will stop them but to be
able to reframe the story that you've
had wit it's literally this unrelenting
like a list of problems obstacles things
you've had to overcome and in all of
that you get to one of your plays which
is have fun mmm and I thought wow like
to be learning from what you're going
through and to have like one of your
marquee take aways from everything
you've been through to have fun why is
that so powerful that's a lesson I
learned playing football you know as you
get to different levels of sports you
really start to see the fun you're
taking away from it because it starts to
turn into a business remember when I was
young my little league coach always told
us that you have to have fun because
once you take away the fun you already
lost because you you're not doing it for
what you started out doing it for and it
was interesting because when Leah first
got diagnosed with cancer you know I
stayed in the hospital all the time
before I never left the hospital for a
straight month when she first got
diagnosed but one night I decided to go
to my wife's house just because I needed
to get my mind right and just get myself
out of that type of environment for a
little bit and while I was there you
know her roommate had a group of friends
over
and they was talking it was having fun
and somebody told the joke and the whole
room burst out in laughter and I started
laughing and it was crazy because in the
instance my brain told me to stop
laughing and I stopped and I just sat
down on the couch thinking to myself
like what was so funny like my
four-year-old daughter was in the
hospital battling death there's
absolutely nothing that should be funny
but as I started to sitting and I was
thinking more like I can't take this
approach because if I have this mindset
going into Leah's battle with cancer
we're always just so somber always
asking the question why us why do we
have to go through this then we're gonna
lose but if we learn to control our own
emotions and not tired to certain events
but have complete control of our
settings then you know we we can
overcome this disease and I'm telling
you I feel like because of we I was able
to shift my mindset in that moment that
allowed us to overcome because we had
joy we had happiness it didn't matter
what the doctors were telling us it
didn't matter what she was going through
it didn't matter the stress that I was
going through being away from her we
just tried to have fun as much as we
could so that's really incredible and I
can only imagine having to face down
something like that and what I love
about this is there's always this sense
when you tell your story of learning
lessons in real time that have real
practical use that you learn and then
you apply which i think is is really
really incredible and you once said that
we all have moments of weakness and but
they're just that they're moments and I
don't let my moments of weakness turn
into a mindset how important is mindset
like what are elements that make up like
the kind of powerful mindset that you
have that you've passed on to your
daughter where I see a lot of people go
wrong is they think those strong side of
the weakness is weak but I think it's
necessary because sometimes you have to
cry you have to get it all out so that
you're able to make decisions that are
not based off emotions you know a lot of
times when people saw me on TV talking
about my daughter
crying a lot because I was trying to
deal with these emotions that I was
facing with when I was behind closed
doors and I was just with my wife at the
house I was crying a lot I was trying to
find something inside me to keep
fighting for my daughter to keep keep
moving and I didn't let those those
moments where I thought we consumed me
and turned into a mindset I let them be
just that let them be moments and when I
got done crying I wiped the tears off
got up and was like okay this is what we
need to do next to keep fighting and I
think that's that's the key that people
need to realize that it's okay to be
weak but when you you're able to show
these signs of weakness then people are
able to step in and help you and you
can't get through things along that you
need to help and in order to do that you
have to show that you're weak it's
really interesting I have multiple
questions in here so one do you have
things that you're telling yourself in
those moments of weakness that will get
you quickly out of it or and if so what
are those things it's not something I
tell myself is something I pictured um
those are intangible they always thought
I was intangible you first have to see
it in your mind first in order for it to
become true and it's it's interesting
because when I'm traveling a lot people
always ask me the same question is how
does it feel to play in the NFL right
and I always respond and say it feels
exactly how you think it would feel if
you reached your goals and I would see
the person's face just light up because
they were able in that moment the
pitcher would it would feel like a day
accomplish their goal so that's what I
always would tell myself what would it
feel like if Rhea beat cancer what would
it feel like if you made it to the NFL
because what I did was take that
feelings and compare it to the pain I
was facing at the time and if that
feeling of overcoming the obstacles I
was facing was greater than the pain
then I kept pushing you know I wanted to
use my pain in order to get many
greatness but I first had to feel and
see what it would be like if I overcame
these obstacles and achieve my goals
that's really powerful in terms of being
a pretty simple math equation of being
able to look at okay this is what I
think this would
like and that's a certain kind of RAD
and then there's what I'm going through
are gonna have to go through in order to
get there have there been times where
you're like add the math equation
doesn't add up
and so now I'm gonna stop it happened
with me retiring it's hard I tell
everybody that you have to learn gonna
call audibles in your life you have to
learn when to fake pivots a lot of
people get confused and think that you
know if they keep fighting then that's
that strength that's true strength but
sometimes true strength is being able to
see what life is giving you and making a
pivot and your life to do something
different and I had put thirteen years
into football of literally blood sweat
and tears and to walk away from it was
the hardest thing I had to do but I felt
like I had a bigger purpose and I
realized that what I could could achieve
on the football field wasn't worth the
pain that I I was going through you know
because I had foot surgery a couple of
years ago after playing against the
Titans and although I could make it back
because I proved that when I I made it
back with the Jets the long-term pain
that I would go through but you know the
arthritis and stuff that I was facing my
foot and what my family would had to go
through it wasn't worth it to me you
know I felt like it was time to walk
away and do something I felt like my
true purpose was that and when I thought
about it of course starting over it's
hard you know the unknown is it's always
hard that's why people don't like to do
new things because you don't know what
he's gonna lead towards but I was
willing to take the chance because when
I feel the feeling that I would get from
being able to change people mindset I'm
able to build this big company that just
empowers people it's greater than the
pain of walking away from the sport that
I love makes a lot of sense you
mentioned earlier playing through four
quarters all through all four quarters
what did you tell Leah about that
because I know her first round of
experimental treatment didn't work and
so that had to be a wildly disheartening
moment for you guys and when it's a
wildly disheartening moment for adults
and it's crushing I can only imagine
what it's like when you're a
four-year-old and are going through that
so what did you tell her what is
that whole concept yeah so when she
first got diagnosed we we put her into a
new clinical trial that they had made
specifically for her type of cancer
which was Nora blastoma
and after the first four months of
treatment it was hard but I was able to
motivate my daughter to keep her pushing
because let her know that when we get
these results back that things might
change for us so when we got the results
back after her first treatment and we
found out that the cancer had went from
her hip to her chest her arms to her
skull to her shoulders she was
disappointed
I felt like she thought she was letting
me down because she was she promised me
in the beginning that she was gonna give
it everything she has and that she was
gonna overcome cancer but that moment
was hard for her right
so we had put her into a new trial in
this trial it was tough but I saw that
really wearing my daughter down like it
was it was literally beating her up it
was one time in the hospital that things
got really bad and she hadn't talked to
me in two days she didn't eat nothing
she was just she was just there you know
if it wasn't for the monitors I would
have thought that my daughter was going
but the monitor showed that her heart
was still beating but I went over to her
bed and I just whispered in the hair
here and I told her you know I know
you're going through a lot of pain right
now but this pain is only temporary and
you promised me when we first started
this fight that she was gonna fight for
four quarters and I need you to keep
that promise I need you to fight through
the pain that you're going through right
now because we don't know if this can be
the treatment that saved your life and
she had whispered to me and she said
okay dad I felt like in that moment that
I knew my daughter wasn't gonna give up
and a couple of months later we went
back in to get the results from her new
treatment and the doctors told us it was
gonna be about three to four days before
we got the results so we left the
hospital and as we were driving home my
phone started ringing and I picked it up
and it was the doctor and she said mr.
Steele I know that I told you was going
to take three to four days but this
couldn't wait I'm a hard job because I
thought it was gonna be something bad
there's no reason for you to
should call me when you just told me it
was gonna take three to four days but
she told me no we just looked at the
scans and there's no evidence of disease
its she's in remission and I just
dropped the phone and I just started
smiling and I looked to my left at my
wife and I looked in the backseat at my
daughter and they both had big smiles on
their face and my daughter said dad did
I beat up cancer and I told her yes and
at that moment I can't even explain the
feeling was like knowing that my
daughter was born again the feeling that
I had when she was first born it was
multiplied by a thousand because it was
like I was watching the rebirth she had
a second chance at life and in that
moment I realized how important it is to
fight for four quarters because you
never know would you what can happen if
there's still time on the clock it's
incredible man so when you're fighting
for four quarters and it's brutally
difficult and it's really painful what
tactics do you have for dealing with
that pain whether the pain is physical
which I imagine you've gone through in
just catastrophic amounts and rehabbing
and things like that or mental like what
are the the tactics that you have um
yeah like you said I've been through
some crazy injuries Hey I mean painful
I mean painful the rehab process is
gruesome but like I said earlier people
try to make it seem like having this
type of mindset is just it's so hard
that you have to have all these
different things in your backpack to use
when you need it but it's really simple
and it's really just picturing what you
want out of life being able to visualize
what exactly do you want and being able
to hone that feeling that you would get
from not giving up the feeling that your
family would get from experiencing the
life because they knew you didn't give
up and if that's greater than their pain
which most of the time is going to be
and you got to keep fighting because
it's painful success it's painful you
know I mean you have to go through a lot
of ups and downs but when you get that
up that last up it's it's a beautiful
thing if you ever had anybody say to you
okay I get it but I don't know what I
want
mm-hmm what do you say to them if you
don't know what you want I can't tell
you
you cannot admit you have to do some
soul-searching yourself to find out what
you really want because a lot of people
they go through life without having
goals
they're just here and I honestly believe
that everybody's here for a purpose but
you have to find out what that purpose
is so do you think there's a process
that people can go through and and I
push on this one because I get asked us
a lot it's probably the the question I
get asked the most is I don't have a
passion how do I find my passion I don't
think anybody finds their passion I
think do you develop a passion I think
you create it much like you created your
passion for football and I'm guessing
you didn't touch on it too much but I'm
guessing that a big part of it was
looking around where you were growing up
and saying there's only so many escape
routes for me and I know that you were
the first person to graduate college in
your family so that becomes a potential
like path out but the only way that I
might have enough energy to actually see
this all through is to fall in love and
I find that even that is a process of
Fanning the flames and the first time
somebody tell you oh you're really good
at that you think oh wow that felt good
I want that feeling more so you fan
those flames and then you can develop it
into a fascination which then through
the gaining of mastery and now I'm just
stealing from a book called so good they
can ignore you through the process of
gaining mastery it actually turns into a
passion do you think that there's a
similar kind of process to help people
find a purpose or do you think judging
by what you just said that it's sort of
merely giving a story to it like you did
with your daughter that helps bring that
purpose yeah I think it's all about
perspective the end of the day that
might not have been the the reason why
my daughter had cancer but because we
tied that story with that situation it
gave us a purpose and I think what
people have to do is they really have to
do some soul-searching and find out what
do they like doing in life I don't want
to talk about your shirt for a second so
one you have a lot of cool shirts which
we will definitely make sure that we
link to your website and stuff because
some of these are really dope what what
does this
fear and excuses are both off I made
this shirt because I needed to remind
myself that I was in control of my own
settings and no matter what I go through
in my life that if I wake up I had the
change and I have control of how I
attacked that day so the biggest things
to me were excuses determination and
fear because the things I went through
in my life I could have made a bunch of
excuses for why I didn't make it to the
NFL
why didn't I become a Penn State
all-american but I knew if I used those
excuses in that instance I would use
that for the rest of my life and
everything that I don't accomplish so I
felt as though I needed to turn my
excuses off in my life so that I can
accomplish the things that I want and
determination I think everybody has to
have that because you find out when
you're trying to become successful when
you're trying to do something great if
you don't have determination if you
don't have the mindset that you're never
gonna give up it's going to be easy to
give up because there's a lot of ups and
downs that you have to go through along
the journey and fear is just something
that I think holds people back like I
told you a story about the mountains
people have fear of climbing that
mountain not knowing what's at the top
of the mountain but people who are
fearless I'm gonna go out there and do
things even if they don't know what the
outcome is just because they know it's
gonna hold them back from achieving
great things so these are the three
things I wanted to put on my shirt to
remind me as long as I have control of
these three settings and I can go out
there and do whatever I wanted to do it
for my life and do you think it's being
fear less or do you think that it's
overcoming fear I think it's a little
bit of both I think that you need fear
and sometimes you don't need for you
sometimes fear motivates people to keep
pushing it so some people are scared of
failure so you want to keep pushing
yourself to make sure that they don't
fail but along the journey you're gonna
eventually fail sometimes so you have to
have you have to turn the fear off in a
sense of failure you have to use fear to
push you to new heights but when you
reach the heights when you face those
fears in your life you have to be able
to turn off
fear of failing so you know where I'm
gonna keep working there may be failure
later on down the road but I already
felt would failure felt like so it can't
be that much worse so I have to keep
pushing myself you've got a couple of
other shirts what are some of your
favorites no no your work I think it's
very important for people to know that
work before they go out into this world
because it's a scary place and when you
don't know what you what's your work
somebody or something will tell you you
know a lot of times when I was growing
up and I was facing these type of
injuries people were telling me you
can't come back from this but I already
believed that I could because I seen
other people do it I know what I'm
capable of doing so it doesn't matter
what you tell me I know what I'm worth
you know if people go out here and you
know some teachers tell people they're
not smart enough to go to college you're
not pretty enough to do this you're not
you know capable of doing that but if
you already believe in yourself that
you're able to accomplish whatever you
set out to do then I feel like you can
accomplish anything because you know
your work I'm glad you brought that up
you talked about people that negativity
a is is going to happen and then be that
you can actually use it to propel you
forward how do you think about
negativity and I'm sure you've had a lot
more than just somebody thinking oh no
no you're not gonna be able to come back
from this leg that actively like you're
never gonna succeed people from
Wilmington Delaware they don't go on to
become athletes like how do you use that
I think the begger biggest example of
that is my junior year in college and I
had just overcame these two serious
injuries with the ACL MCL and then
breaking my fibula and I would go on the
internet cuz it was a big block size for
Penn State football and I saw people on
there always saying Devin still sucks we
don't know why we got him why he came to
this school and it hurt but I used that
hurt to push me my senior year and you
said say you know what when it's all
said and done I'm gonna prove these
people wrong then i'ma show them that
I'm here for a reason and that these
injuries are not gonna stop me from
doing what I first came here to do so
every day I will post those negative
blog post on my wall
right and every time I would wake up I
would read those when I was waking up at
4 o'clock in the morning to go workout
when I was standing in the gym later
than everybody else I visualized these
blog posts where people were telling me
that I wasn't gonna make it to the NFL
and I wasn't gonna be good enough and I
used that as fuel to keep pushing myself
to do the things that I didn't
necessarily wanted to do but I knew I
had to do it in order to get the goals
that I wanted I absolutely loved that do
you think at all about having a chip on
your shoulder and it being useful I
think you do you need a chip on your
shoulder in order to push yourself when
you want to give up because there's a
lot there's gonna be a lot of people
that doubt you but you have to go out
there and not only prove those doubters
wrong but prove yourself right there's a
lot of people you get bullied or when
people tell you can't do something they
picture their suffering they picture
themselves in your situation and they
tell yourself man if I was going through
that there's no way out being able to
overcome that or reach my goal so I know
they can't do it but you have to prove
to them that you can overcome and that
not only turn them into supporters but
it will also inspire them that whatever
they're going through and they're like
they can overcome it as well because
they just saw what you went through all
right now I need your help
you mentioned bullies so now I want to
go down this path so I was doing an AMA
live where I talked to the camera you
can ask me anything you want about
anything and this guy wrote in and said
I have a much younger brother and he's
he's overweight and he's getting bullied
and it's really starting to be a problem
for him and I don't know what to do and
I said you know what give me on a I gave
like a whole spiel about here's what I
think you need to do and I felt like it
was awesome advice on paper but I didn't
know if it would work in real life and
so after giving the advice which was
more or less like at the end of the day
I don't want this to be true but
[__] has to toughen up so just
know I write I'm not saying that that's
a good thing or a bad thing I'm just
saying he's gonna have to get tougher
mentally he's got to decide whether he's
okay with his weight or not because if
he is and [__] everybody that tells me
he's got a problem and if he's not then
he's got to make a change like that's
that's the truth and then I said feeling
good about the advice I've given on
camera
I said put me on the phone with this kid
and hey I want him to know somebody else
cares right so if his brother looks up
to me then potentially I'll have some
juice on the call so let's do this guy
called get me on the phone with him and
we got on the phone together and I was
completely ineffective and I realized I
don't know how to translate this to kids
so as because literally every tool that
I have assumes that your brain is
developed and that I can hit you with
that that I can reason with you that I
can point out conflicting moments in
your own arguments like I don't care
about my weight at all and yet I cry
myself to sleep right then it becomes
very easy to say hey look you don't need
to care about your weight but don't lie
to yourself if you secretly do right now
that's easy with an adult that's hard as
hell with a kid you've gone through this
with a four-year-old I don't understand
so like what would you say to a kid
let's say he's 10 11 years old
he's being bullied and he's being
bullied about his weight right so he
does something very real and he's very
sensitive about it it's touched on what
you say you have to be honest with
yourself know when you're at 10:11 your
brain is more developed in you know me
dealing with my four-year-old or
daughter but you have to be real to
yourself and a lot of people say you
have to look yourself in the mirror and
be honest but I I think you can't look
in the mirror when you look in the
mirror you have to see the person that
you you don't want to see I think that's
what stops people from being successful
we looking at mirror and we say you know
what I'm not I don't care about my way
I'm comfortable in my way but deep down
inside or not so you have to look
yourself in the mirror and tell yourself
you know what I'm not comfortable with
the way I am and this all goes back to
knowing your work if you don't like your
work then you have to find ways to add
value to yourself you have to go back to
school you have to go to the gym you
have to do things that make you feel
good about yourself because no matter if
you Cho lose the weight for them so you
stop getting bullied if that's not
something you really wanted to do then
you're gonna have to deal with that
later on mentally yeah I love that you
exude the qualities of what I would say
or a good leader it's not a surprise to
me at
all that the FBI brought you in for
leadership training and it's also not a
surprise to me that you were the team
captain but what people may not realize
is that you are the team captain through
the school's worst scandal what was it
like what was it like to watch your
coaches and everybody who's supposed to
have it all together start to crack and
fall apart how did you step into that
leadership position and and what does it
mean to be a leader the interesting
about it I never looked at myself as
being a leader when I was growing up I
thought that you always had to be born
with those leadership qualities but what
I realized is that the leaders didn't
always start in front of the line that a
lot of them started off in the back but
they had the courage to step out of the
line and go up to the front and I
decided to do that my junior year at the
bowl game I knew that our seniors were
graduating our leaders were graduating
and I wanted to take on that leadership
role and I let that be known going into
the bowl game and then seeing my senior
year I got elect to be a captain but I
didn't know what being the captain was
all about at that point in time I
thought it was all fun and when the news
broke I was sitting in my my house and
across my screen I saw Joe Paterno is
fired and I looked on the screen and
they showed the campus breaking out and
what they called riots and I told myself
I couldn't let Penn State be known for
this that that's not what the Penn State
community is all about so the next day I
called a squad meeting with the team and
I told them when we go out for this game
for Iceni this weekend that we're not
gonna run out the tunnel as individuals
but we're gonna lock arms and show
everybody if we stick together then we
can overcome this adversity and I think
that was a pivotal moment for Penn State
as a whole because it showed people that
we wasn't gonna fall apart no matter
what people thought about us on the
outside that we knew we were strong
enough to overcome when I you know took
that role as the captain then I was
basically telling the players I was
telling the Penn State community that
I'm gonna do was whatever is in the best
interest of the university and not
what's in the best interest of Devon
you've talked about in the notion of
integrity that it has to do also with
hidden ifs what are the hidden ifs and
how do they stop people from living up
to their integrity all right so what I
mean by hitting ifs is you know when we
go through life sometimes we will set a
goal for ourselves and without knowing
we'll tie hidden hitch to it like if I
said I wanted to make it to the NFL if I
get a scholarship or if I don't go
through any injuries and I think if we
want to make progress as a society we
have to learn to start taking away those
hidden X because there was a time period
where you know if you shook somebody's
hands and you look them in the eye you
say you just want to do something
you did it no matter what but nowadays
we have all these different contracts
that have words in it that we don't even
understand just to protect ourselves
from people if they don't follow through
so I feel like in life when you tell
yourself you're gonna do something you
can't base it off of what opportunities
that you're giving to what is next for
you what are you doing how do you make
sure that your future is bigger than
your past which was pretty massive yeah
so it's basically letting go of the last
play I think whether you accomplished a
lot in your life but you don't
accomplish a lot I think the people who
are at the top of the game in business
and life and in sports is people who
forget about the past and let go of the
last play so right now I'm focusing on
not thinking about all the things that
comes in my past but focusing on right
now and how I can be successful in this
moment and what I want to do is just
bring the mindset that we have of
athletes to the business world to
people's lives and let them know that
you don't have to be an athlete in order
to think like an athlete that is its
all-out mindset that you need to have
and once you have this mindset you're
able to compete at the highest level of
life no matter what you're trying to do
so just empowering people and letting
them know that whatever your dreams are
doing you're capable of reaching it all
right before I ask my last question
where can these guys find you online
right I'm on still in the game on
YouTube on Instagram and my website is
Devin still in the game calm nice
alright my final question what's the
impact that you want to have on the
world it's a tough one
I actually I went to a funeral not too
long ago of a family member and when I
was sitting in the crowd you know the
pastor was talking and he said what do
you want your tombstone to read when
it's all said and done and that made me
reflect a lot in that moment is that
I've been chasing so long for my
tombstone to be you know he was this
great NFL playing he was a great
football player but I feel like I'm
destined for so so much I'm like greater
things than just you know playing the
sport that right now I'm playing the
game of life and I'm trying to help
other people win the game of life so
what I want when it's all said and done
actually I don't even want a tombstone
to remind people that I've been here I
want to leave an impact in the cancer
community in the business world in
people's lives that when I'm going that
the values and the lessons that I taught
people live long wait wait longer than I
did thank you so much for being on the
show all right guys this this truly is
one of the most incredible examples of
mindset that I've ever seen in my life
go back and listen to all the things
that he had to overcome I literally
couldn't give each one their due because
the listing amount made this intro about
twice as long as my normal intro but
that's how many problems he went through
and had to overcome and every time he
fights back and he doesn't just fight
back to playing he fights back to
playing at an elite level
it's literally absurd how one injury
after another he comes back he comes
back he comes back and then when finally
it seems like okay all the injuries are
behind him that's when then it gets
passed on to his daughter and he has to
go through that incredible ordeal and
somehow on the other side of that not
only does he return to football but he
finds something bigger than that beyond
football so that he can really create
the next amazing chapter in his life and
through all of it
he doesn't make excuses he doesn't give
in to fear he understands that his life
is in his control it's something that he
has to create that he
to stand up that he has to paste the
people writing about him that he sucks
that he never should have been there
whoever that hater is at that moment in
his life to be willing to stare at that
to leverage that to fight through to
believe in what he's doing enough that
no matter how much pain he has to suffer
through that he's going to keep going to
be a man who has integrity to be a man
of his word to be a man that needs only
shake your hand and tell you that he's
going to do it and then execute against
it and we all get to see that that's
exactly what he's done with his life
it's absolutely incredible he's lived it
in the spotlight and I will make a
prediction right now what this man is
about to do with his life will dwarf
everything that he's done up to this
point right now as of the recording of
this show
he is very difficult to find on certain
parts of the internet I'll say you to
specifically go watch his content it is
bright of the chills it is breathtaking
it is powerful he is one of the most
effective speakers I've ever seen in my
life and that's him at the beginning of
his career five years from now I think
he's gonna be a dominant force you hear
it heard it here first alright if you
guys haven't already be sure to
subscribe and until next time my friends
be legendary take care hey everybody
thank you so much for watching and being
a part of this community if you haven't
already be sure to subscribe you're
gonna get weekly videos on building a
growth mindset cultivating grit and
unlocking your full potential